
Do you have any questions?
What to ask the interviewer.

1. What goals would this position achieve at the end of the first six months?

2. Picture yourself giving me a great review on my one year anniversary - what did I accomplish?

3. How will this role impact you and your success?

4. What can I do in this role to help you succeed and exceed the goals for your position?

5. What traits did the prior person have that you would like to see in the new person?

6. What traits did the prior person have that limited them from becoming more successful?

7. Could you describe the type of employee who fits well with the organization?

8. How are the goals set for the department?

9. How long was the last person in this role and where are they now?

10. What is your biggest challenge as a leader in your position?

11. What keeps you up at night? What are the pain points?
    Then offer how you can ease that pain.
    “My goals is to work without a lot of oversight so you can go back 
    to the work you need to do.
    Be the low maintenance problem solver. 
    Offer details of what you would do to help. 
    Be specific!

12. What can I do in this role to make your job (or the hiring manager's job) easier?

13. What is most important to you when considering a new member to your team?

14. How would you describe the culture here?

15. What is the company's management style?

16. What characterizes the most successful people in this company?

17. What significant changes has this company gone through in the last three years?

18. What is the organization's plan for the next three years?

19. What are the company's strengths and weaknesses compared to its competition? 

20. If I were in this position, what's the most important thing 
    I could accomplish within my first 90 days? 
    Use it to prepare and share a plan to impress them.

21. In my research I have learned that your company values are ____. 
    They dovetail with my personal values. (Give examples.)

22. What types of personalities mesh well with the team?

23. What are your team's strengths?

24. What are the opportunities or gaps within your team?

25. How long have your employees worked for the company?

26. What, if anything, in my background gives you pause?

27. If you had a chance to interview for your company again 
    (knowing what you know now), what questions would you ask next time?

28. The first 30 days are very important for me to meet as many 
    team members as possible. How will you recommend I do that?

29. What are the Top 3 skills or experiences you are looking for 
    that may not be mentioned in the job description?

30. Of all of the people who have worked for you, what are the 
    characteristics of those who have stood out as great performers?

31. I have to admit I'm a perfectionist in some areas. 
    What are the aspects of this position that absolutely require 
    precision and attention to detail?

32. Of all of the criteria you have outlined for this position, 
    what are the Top 3 in stack rank order?

33. The position we are discussing is something I am very excited about. 
    Can you give me feedback on how I am meeting your qualifications 
    and if I will proceed to the next level of the hiring process? 
    (This is called “going for the close” or “asking for the order” in sales.)

34. Why did you join the company?

35. How does this role further your company's mission?

36. What haven't I asked that most candidates ask?

37. What are the next steps in this process?

