https://www.inc.com/justin-bariso/facebooks-most-popular-interview-question-is-not-at-all-what-youd-think-but-its-completely-brilliant.html

APR 22, 2019

Facebook's Most Popular Interview Question 
Is Not at All What You'd Think - but It's Completely 
Brilliant

Great companies ask great interview questions. 
This one's not just smart - it's emotionally intelligent.

BY JUSTIN BARISO

Successful companies know the importance of good
recruiting; after all, great companies are
founded on great people. But just as important as
finding those great people is helping them to
thrive after they've got the job.

Facebook knows this. As just one of the most
sought-after employers in Silicon Valley, it's
locked in a fierce battle for top talent. 

That's why it's interesting to take a look at
Facebook's favorite interview question, which the
company recently revealed is the question it asks
most to potential recruits:

    On your very best day at work - the day you come
    home and think you have the best job in the world
    - what did you do that day?

You might be surprised by this question. After
all, it's very subjective and doesn't really
focus on a person's skills or abilities. 

But this question's not just smart - it's
emotionally intelligent.

Here are three reasons why:

1. It reveals inner thoughts and feelings.
Miranda Kalinowski, Facebook's global head of
recruiting, told Business Insider that when
interviewers ask this question, they're trying to
identify a candidate's true passions and whether
that innate interest matches what Facebook is
looking for.

Job candidates spend days or even weeks preparing
for a coveted interview. But this question helps
get beyond canned or even false answers. Why?
Because it appeals to a person's emotions.

After all, it's very hard to fake passion.

2. It plays to a person's strengths.
Facebook describes itself as a strengths-based
company. That means that management believes if
you give people opportunities to build on what
they've already proved they're good at, they'll
flourish.

"We know when you're doing work you enjoy, you'll
be happier and more engaged--and will perform at
the top of your game," Lori Goler, vice president
of people at Facebook, told Forbes. "We want
every person to thrive in their role. So before
you even join, we try to discover your true
strengths--and how you play to them. Which
activities help you achieve a state of 'flow'? If
you think about your very best day, you'll know
the answer."

By matching up people with jobs that play to
their strengths, Facebook puts those people in a
position to succeed. That fosters positive
emotions like confidence and fulfillment--
something you can't find in every job.

3. It helps the company improve, too.
This question provides Facebook with long-term
benefits as well.

Over time, the company collects tons of data on
what makes desirable candidates happy. As certain
trends and patterns emerge, this enables Facebook
to review its own internal job positions and make
sure its offerings are appealing to top talent.

In other words, this question not only helps
Facebook find the best candidates now, it helps
the company build for the future.

Great companies ask great interview questions. 

Remember that you want to hire a person, not a
robot. People are emotional creatures, so you
want to stir their feelings and get to know them
as people--their real thoughts, desires, and
passions.

Do this, and not only will you find the best
people for your company - you'll help them to
thrive for years to come.